=head1 NAME

Web::DomainName::Canonicalize - Domain name canonicalization

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Web::DomainName::Canonicalize;
  $out = canonicalize_domain_name $in;
  $out = canonicalize_url_host $in;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Web::DomainName::Canonicalize> module provides functions to
convert domain names into their canonical representations, as Web
browsers do.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

This module exports two functions:

=over 4

=item $out = canonicalize_domain_name $in

Canonicalize a domain name, i.e. dotted labels.  The input might
contain non-ASCII characters; they would be Punycode-encoded by the
function.  If the input has no canonical representation (i.e. the
input contains a character that cannot be used in domain names) the
function returns C<undef>.  Note that the function might still return
a non-C<undef> value when the domain name is invalid but it has a
canonical representation.

Input is considered as a domain name; no IP address canonicalization
is performed.

=item $out = canonicalize_url_host $in

Canonicalize the C<host> component of a URL.  In addition to
C<canonicalize_domain_name>, percent-encoding and -decoding, IP
address canonicalization, and detection of some additional invalid
characters are performed.  If the input has no canonical
representation (such that the URL is invalid), the function returns
C<undef>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

Tentative spec for URL canonicalization C<sketch/spec.txt>.

L<Web::IPAddr::Canonicalize>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2011 Wakaba <w@suika.fam.cx>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
